Pages/branch build controls (#2)
Ekwuno/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/platform/branch-build-controls.md

---
pcx-content-type: concept
title: Branch build controls
---

> ## Branch Build Controls 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Branch build controls 
```

> When connected to your git source, Pages allows you to control which environments and branches you’d like to automatically build. By default, any time you commit to either your Production or Preview environment Pages will trigger a build. However, with branch build controls, you can configure automatic deployments to suit your preference on a per project basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When connected to your git source, Pages allows you to control which environments and branches you would like to automatically build. By default, Pages will trigger a build any time you commit to either your production or preview environment. However, with branch build controls, you can configure automatic deployments to suit your preference on a per project basis.
```

> ### Skip Builds 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Skip builds
```

> Without any configuration required, you can choose to skip a build and deployment on an adhoc basis. By adding [CISkip], [CI-Skip], [Skip CI], [Skip-CI] or [CF-Pages-Skip] as a prefix in your commit message, Pages will omit that build/deployment. The prefixes are case insensitive. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without any configuration required, you can choose to skip a build and deployment on an adhoc basis. By adding the `[CISkip]`, `[CI-Skip]`, `[Skip CI]`, `[Skip-CI]` or `[CF-Pages-Skip]` flag as a prefix in your commit message, Pages will omit that build/deployment. The prefixes are case insensitive. 
```

Reviewer: There needs to be an explanation of what all the items in [] are.

Author: I think it's self-explanatory, the prefixes are flags recognized by  Pages to Skip your builds.

Reviewer: Then we will add a 'flag' noun as a descriptor.

> However, if you would like to configure your project’s settings for automatic deployments going forward without having to use CI Skip, begin by navigating to the **Build & Deployments** section of your project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you would like to configure your project’s settings for automatic deployments without having to use CI Skip, go to your Pages project > **Settings** > **Build & deployments** and select the configuration option for either the production deployment or the preview deployment.
```
What is the user doing after build & deployments?

Author: select the configuration option for either the production deployment or the preview deployment.

Author: How does this read now?

> ### Production branch control 

Reviewer: Is this section about setting preview deployments to another branch other than production? Or for configuring automatic deployments to the Production branch?

Author: it is for setting preview deployments to another branch other than production and configuring preview controls

> Select  “Configure Production deployments”. Pages will default to setting your Production environment to the branch you first push, however, you can set your production to another branch if you choose. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure deployment options, go to your Pages project > **Settings** > **Builds & deployments** > **Configure Production deployments**. Pages will default to setting your production environment to the branch you first push, but you can set your production to another branch if you choose. 
```
What is the developer's goal here? Need to write 'To ___________, go to..."

Author: To configure deployment options

Author: How does this read now?

> You can also enable or disable automatic deployment behavior on the Production branch by checking the provided box. You must save your settings in order for the new Production branch controls to take effect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also enable or disable automatic deployment behavior on the production branch by checking the **Enable automatic production branch deployments** box. You must save your settings in order for the new production branch controls to take effect. 
```

> ![Configure preview branch](../media/configure-preview-deployment.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![You can configure your preview deployments by following the steps above](../media/configure-preview-deployment.png)
```

### Preview branch control 

> To configure automatic builds for preview deployments, there are three options to choose from. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring automatic builds for preview deployments, there are three options to choose from. 
```

> * **All non-Production branches**: By default, Pages will automatically deploy any and every commit to a Preview branch and thus is set to “All non-Production branches”. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **All non-Production branches**: By default, Pages will automatically deploy any and every commit to a preview branch.
```

> * **None**: If you would like to turn off automatic builds for all preview branches you can do so by selecting this option. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **None**: Turns off automatic builds for all preview branches.
```

> * **Custom branches**: However, if you would like to further customize the automatic deployments of _certain_ preview branches, you can do so by selecting [**Custom Branches**].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Custom branches**: Customize the automatic deployments of certain_preview branches.
```

> ![Include preview branch](../media/include-preview-brances.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Choose what kind of preview deployment you need for your Pages project in the Cloudflare dashboard](../media/include-preview-brances.png)
```

> #### Custom Preview Branch Control  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Custom preview branch control  
```

> By selecting Custom branches, you can specify in the provided configuration fields branches you wish to include and exclude from automatic deployments. The configuration fields can be filled in two ways: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By selecting **Custom branches**, you can specify branches you wish to include and exclude from automatic deployments in the provided configuration fields. The configuration fields can be filled in two ways: 
```

> * **Static branch names**: Enter the precise name of the branch you are looking to include or exclude (e.g. staging, dev) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Static branch names**: Enter the precise name of the branch you are looking to include or exclude (for example, staging or dev).
```

> * **Wildcard syntax**: Use wildcards to match multiple branches. You can specify wildcards at the start or end of your rule. The order of execution for the config is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Wildcard syntax**: Use wildcards to match multiple branches. You can specify wildcards at the start or end of your rule. The order of execution for the configuration is:

```

<ol>
  <ol>
    <li>Excludes</li>
    <li>Includes</li>
    <li>Skip</li>
  </ol>
</ol>

> This means we will process the exclude configuration first, then go to the include configuration and if a branch doesn't match either then it will be skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pages will process the exclude configuration first, then go to the include configuration. If a branch does not match either then it will be skipped.
```

#### Wildcards

A wildcard (`*`) is a character that is used within rules. It can be placed alone to match anything or placed at the start or end of a rule to allow for better control over branch configuration. A wildcard will match zero or more characters. 

For example, if you wanted to match all branches that started with `fix/` then you would create the rule `fix/*` to match strings like `fix/1`, `fix/bugs`or `fix/`.

**_Example 1:_**
    
If you want to enforce branch prefixes such as `fix/`, `feat/`, or `chore/` with wildcard syntax, you can include and exclude certain branches with the following rules:

* Include Preview branches:
`fix/*`, `feat/*`, `chore/*`

* Exclude Preview branches:
``
    

> where Pages will include any branches with the indicated prefixes and exclude everything else. In this example the excluding option is left empty.

Reviewer: Is this sentence supposed to start with 'where'?

Author: Maybe "Here"

How does this read "Here Pages will include any branches with the indicated prefixes and exclude everything else. In this example, the excluding option is left empty."

**_Example 2:_**

> If you wanted to prevent dependabot from creating a deployment for each PR it creates, you can exclude those branches with the following:

Reviewer: What is dependabot? It wasn't mentioned before this.

Author: It is an Automated dependency update built into GitHub. I'll add a link.

* Include Preview branches:
`*`

* Exclude Preview branches:
`dependabot/*`

> where Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with “dependabot”. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with `dependabot`. 
```

### Skip builds

Without any configuration required, you can choose to skip a build and deployment on an adhoc basis. By adding [CISkip], [CI-Skip], [Skip CI], [Skip-CI] or [CF-Pages-Skip] as a prefix in your commit message, Pages will omit that build/deployment. The prefixes are case insensitive. 

However, if you would like to configure your project’s settings for automatic deployments going forward without having to use CI Skip, begin by navigating to the **Build & Deployments** section of your project. 

### Production branch control 

Select  “Configure Production deployments”. Pages will default to setting your Production environment to the branch you first push, however, you can set your production to another branch if you choose. 

You can also enable or disable automatic deployment behavior on the production branch by checking the **Enable automatic production branch deployments** box. You must save your settings in order for the new production branch controls to take effect. 

> ![You can configure your preview deployments by following the steps above](../media/configure-preview-deployment.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Configure your preview deployments by following the steps above](../media/configure-preview-deployment.png)
```

### Preview branch control 

When configuring automatic builds for preview deployments, there are three options to choose from. 

* **All non-Production branches**: By default, Pages will automatically deploy any and every commit to a preview branch.
* **None**: Turns off automatic builds for all preview branches.

> * **Custom branches**: Customize the automatic deployments of certain_preview branches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Custom branches**: Customize the automatic deployments of certain preview branches.
```

* **Wildcard syntax**: Use wildcards to match multiple branches. You can specify wildcards at the start or end of your rule. The order of execution for the configuration is:

<ol>
  <ol>
    <li>Excludes</li>
    <li>Includes</li>
    <li>Skip</li>
  </ol>
</ol>

Pages will process the exclude configuration first, then go to the include configuration. If a branch does not match either then it will be skipped.

#### Wildcards

A wildcard (`*`) is a character that is used within rules. It can be placed alone to match anything or placed at the start or end of a rule to allow for better control over branch configuration. A wildcard will match zero or more characters. 

For example, if you wanted to match all branches that started with `fix/` then you would create the rule `fix/*` to match strings like `fix/1`, `fix/bugs`or `fix/`.

**_Example 1:_**
    
If you want to enforce branch prefixes such as `fix/`, `feat/`, or `chore/` with wildcard syntax, you can include and exclude certain branches with the following rules:

* Include Preview branches:
`fix/*`, `feat/*`, `chore/*`

* Exclude Preview branches:
``
    

> where Pages will include any branches with the indicated prefixes and exclude everything else. In this example the excluding option is left empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here Pages will include any branches with the indicated prefixes and exclude everything else. In this example, the excluding option is left empty.
```

**_Example 2:_**

> If you wanted to prevent dependabot from creating a deployment for each PR it creates, you can exclude those branches with the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wanted to prevent [dependabot](https://github.com/dependabot) from creating a deployment for each PR it creates, you can exclude those branches with the following:
```

Awaiting link.

* Include Preview branches:
`*`

* Exclude Preview branches:
`dependabot/*`

> where Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with `dependabot`. 

Reviewer: Need the same fix here as line 68.

> where Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with `dependabot`. 

Author: ```suggestion
where Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with `dependabot`. In this example, the excluding option means any `dependabot/`  branches will not be built.
```

> where Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with `dependabot`. In this example, the excluding option means any `dependabot/`  branches will not be built.

Reviewer: Needs same fix as line 68

Author: Does it read well now?

> where Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with `dependabot`. In this example, the excluding option means any `dependabot/`  branches will not be built.

Author: ```suggestion
Here Pages will include all branches except any branch starting with `dependabot`. In this example, the excluding option means any `dependabot/`  branches will not be built.
```
